as I've said many many times tolerance
doesn't mean that I agree with you
tolerance doesn't mean that I have to
make up excuses for you when you're
wrong if I tolerate you means just that
no more no less and I do tolerate people
who disagree with me either on matters
of principle or matters of tactics
matters of strategy here on YouTube
there have been a lot of games played
lately in pursuit of Fame notoriety
money a lot of drama mongering going on
within the vegan scene and I mean you
know to some extent I just tolerate it
and to some extent also i think you know
at least in the beginning people felt
that this was a positive thing because
the drama and the scandal mongering was
supposed to be indirectly and eventually
in pursuit of a larger goal whether you
call that saving the planet or helping
the animals or just promoting veganism
itself but the problem is why i'm making
this video right now on a practical
level I've got to tell you the type of
backstabbing the negative aspects of
this scandal mongering behavior they
actually are having a negative impact on
my ability to organize real world
activism right now and they'll be having
a negative impact on numerous other
people who are not going to make youtube
videos talking about it they're creating
an atmosphere of hostility and distrust
that's counterproductive not long-term
not invisibly very visibly already short
term here and now no you see you love
love is loyalty I watched Beanie Sigel
listen Jay Z i watch the game we need
this 50 i watch the locks when they dis
puffy if i put a [ __ ] on is that won't
happen to me
if I put a [ __ ] on is that gonna happen
to me loyalty is love love is loyalty I
watched Beanie Sigel listen Jay Z i
watch the game we need is 50 I watched a
lot when they just puffy if I put a
[ __ ] on is that gonna happen to me if I
put a [ __ ] on is that gonna happen to
me I Betis yen to kick this off and to
put a human face on some of the
philosophical questions I'm going to
raise here I'm now going to read you an
email from a guy named Timothy Timothy
is one of my supporters on patreon
paying one dollar a month currently the
only income I've got in this world so if
you guys want to sign up and join my
patreon to could be fun for the both of
us Timothy rights izel hello I followed
you on YouTube for many months and have
been part of your patreon discussion
forum for a couple of months to your
videos on history and politics drew me
in and I had no idea it would spark such
an interest in me for ecology and
matters of principle what you said about
being uncompromising and not being a
nice guy resonated with me especially
because that trait has been a frequent
source of criticism for me I've
maintained a vegan diet for two weeks
now I believe I was chiefly influenced
in this direction by you I never intend
to abandon veganism but January a lead
for military recruit training I know at
least I'll be required to purchase wool
for my dress uniform I'll do the best I
can thank you for the content you
produce I hope you keep it up for a long
time that this message gets to you and
that you have a good day keep it real
it's the end of the message from Timothy
for me the prospect of ethics relies on
there being some sort of a connection
between knowing and feeling I know that
leather harms animals destroys the
environment and so on and this changes
how i feel about it now i had a
conversation with a Chinese woman here a
few days ago last week and she really
had never thought about before what
leather is made of or where it comes
from she had never thought that buying
leather entails killing animals and you
know at first her reaction like you sort
of don't know if the person is joking
then you realize no sincerely this
person is waking up to this fundamental
fact of their life for the first time
and they're recognizing that something
they've in the past only looked at as a
finished product as an item presented to
consumers has this history behind it has
these difficult ethical questions about
you know how its produced and what it
means to go to us is people if we're
going to pay for it um but leather if
you look at it if you smell it if you
touch it in a store as a finished
product there's nothing disgusting about
it there's nothing revolting about it
but what I know about leather can change
how I feel about leather I can feel
revolted to discover you know if I try
something on in a store and I don't
realize it's made of leather and then I
check the label some of you have had
that that experience that happening more
often son like wool we need try sling on
you're looking at it and then you only
figure out that it has some hidden naik
ingredients you may really feel revolted
you may feel disgusted putting on
leather yourself or when you meet a
friend and your friend is wearing
leather and so on but what I know
changes how i feel and that shapes my
conduct in my daily life in many many
different ways now the question of being
a nice guy and not being a nice guy is
really very different from the question
of being a moral person and it's also
completely separate from this issue of
Moral Sentiments of how you feel about
ethical issues and problems with the
same immediacy that i'm talking about
feeling that leather is something bad or
revolting even though it may look
appealing you know it did it put it this
way leather as a finished product it
doesn't resemble the corpse of a dead
animal in any way whatsoever I'm it very
often leather looks very similar to
plastic as a finished consumer product
now you know this thing with with vegan
cheetah who is currently you know one of
our leading celebrity voices on veganism
here in the digital vegan demi-monde in
many ways cheetah is a nice guy you can
see that publicly and I can say that
some extent because I know him cheetah
is the type of guy who says you know in
his videos he looks in the camera says
to you I hope you're having a great day
I hope you have a great weekend and he
really means it
Oh think if you talk to him personally
offline he is that kind of guy he
actually hopes you're having a nice day
he actually wishes you to evidence we
can in many ways he is a nice guy and
yet you know this video exists and a lot
of controversy exists right now because
he is doing real harm it got just to the
prospect of effective activism here
within veganism you know even proto
activism even just us communicating with
each other getting organized and making
something happen now the the main
example I'm concerned about I proposed
really me and Jason fazzino together
started discussing an event that we
wanted to organize in Thailand in
December now is this activism in the
strictest sense no but the first steps
towards having real meaningful activism
emerged from this mess of you know
discordant and dissonant personalities
that are brought together by vegan
YouTube and a lot of people were really
excited about the idea so the idea was
in its final form was to have an event
in Thailand this December probably going
up to and including New Year's Eve
because many of the people involved that
was really when they want to go be after
christmas in the days leading up to New
Year's Eve and then celebrate New Years
Eve in Thailand and you know it was not
going to be based on lectures it was not
going to based on an academic conference
it was going to give people the
opportunity to see some elephants see
some monkeys possibly visit you know
Conservation Park for endangered turtles
we're going to try to put together a
couple of hands-on meaningful
experiences like that but otherwise the
only events would be to meet other
vegans you know for the vegan last have
the chance to meet the vegan cheetah
face-to-face for the first time possibly
for the light twins to meet the vid she
to face to face the first time and you
know for me to meet all these people and
what have you and to create long-term
friendships the long-term connections of
trust and cooperation free at friendship
you know what friends are one thing
colleagues or another really if we're
talking along as your political activism
its colleagues that we want and
colleagues that we need it's it's a
really pragmatic form of trust and
cooperation that
trying to set up a basis for a long term
and the the original concept for this
when we were doing the brainstorm it was
really me and Jason Posey know who did
this brainstorming together we started
and you know cheetah was was really an
integral part of the of the idea and we
talked about well you know cheetah
doesn't travel much could we have this
event closer to him in his hometown or
in Virginia Beach where he has family uh
you know we went through this long list
of possibilities of possible organizing
this in the United States and then
finally when for various pragmatic
reasons it really became clear that the
place to hold this event would be
Thailand what made sense was to do in
Thailand I said well okay I've got to
check with cheetah in terms of the time
on December can he leave the United
States at all would he attend this event
now why is that you know uh why was it
that from my perspective cheetah was an
important part of this event to have him
be there it is partly because he's a
nice guy uh you know in terms of what
people would actually do with that event
me people hang out go to the beach have
fun go to a go to a kick boxing club I
definitely think that be part of it we
could finally have the the you know
long-awaited fistfight between vegan
she'd have the light twins whatever I
offered I said look if Jason Posey no 17
fistfight with me we could do that for
charity too obviously not seriously the
the box arena there's a limited number
of things in terms of just entertainment
that people will do aside from sitting
down and talking about vegan politics
and getting organized to save the planet
and do all those wonderful important
things we talked about on YouTube but
that most of us have no clear plans on
how to do so there are some contexts in
which being a nice guy matters in which
it's really an important trait and I can
totally imagine a guy like cheetah being
really thrilled to meet some of his fans
face to face the first time to meet
other youtubers to come together that
way that same kind of bright positive
attitude that guy has of you know I hope
you're having a great day I hope you
have a great weekend I can totally
imagine him being a guy who at an event
like that would really bring a lot of
life and joy to it now the last time I
was in Thailand I met with several of my
fans several of my viewers and several
other
vegans on youtube and we did am you know
we sat down and talked politics but
again I'm not a nice guy I think a lot
of those people enjoy meeting me would
have you been meeting me and talking to
me it's a lot like you can listen to any
my fault my podcasts um i'm not i'm not
i don't bring that kind of bright happy
fun energy to something you know I sit
down I want to really talk about about
politics I remember so you know we did
this events at a at a karaoke bar and
there was a funny mome we were all kind
of talking about both different things
and everyone there was basically opposed
to the permanent vacation that's you
know why they were interested me
interested meeting me about that event
mer there was one point which I just
said to people it was kind of a
momentary pause in the conversation so
what do you guys think about those
elections coming up here on tile and
asked a couple of other political
questions and you know everyone there
because they watch my channel they all
your kind of half smiling but half
silent and have awkward everyone kind of
had a laugh at themselves because even
though the people at that table they're
critical of this and they've seen my own
videos raising the question of why
aren't vegans and Thailand more
politically engaged more politically
aware um nobody knew anything about it
nobody had anything to say about those
kinds of political questions with in
Thailand so this event we talked about
holding this December the end of
December in Thailand I still think it's
a great idea i still think could be a
very positive thing for everybody
involved and from my perspective as you
guys know if you've been watching the
videos on this channel I don't have any
kind of personal animosity towards
cheetah we don't have any personal
conflict that I know of he's also
stopped talking to me he stopped
replying to my emails and from my
perspective the weird thing is look
cheetah I really thought about this
event as being for you for him in many
ways and for people like him the reason
why the whole event was thought of as
such a kind of fun vacation for the
people involved is that it's not really
for me and it's not for people like me
uh he says I say you know I'm not that
dude if I was planning my own vacation
in Thailand I wouldn't go anywhere near
the beach there are a lot of things that
are interesting me in Thailand
intellectually historically you know if
I was doing an event for me I'd probably
have it at the National Museum in con
can I ever be I should have a couple of
very area tight people show up and talk
about the history of the dvaravati ruins
with in Thailand in on whatever you know
in terms of art archaeology history
build ancient and modern you know 20th
century politics Vietnam War politics
there are so many things in that part in
in Thailand that that are of interest to
me and where I can imagine hosting an
event for me and for people like me but
this again you know it's partly I'm
aware I'm not a nice guy and in a lot of
ways this was supposed to be a nice
event for nice guys you know is trying
to just help organize something that
people who really enjoy again this isn't
even really activism it's just proto
activism it's setting the foundation for
cooperation and future um but now I'm in
the situation where I'm writing to vegan
cheetah and saying look I expected you
to come to this event you know
ultimately I've got to invest both time
and money if I'm preparing this event
because I'm here in Asia you go back and
forth drinkin ming and Thailand pretty
easily you know if we're setting the
foundation for this like cheetah
regardless of all this other noise and
acrimony you're creating are you going
to come are you committed to coming this
matter are you committed to promoting
this in your channel just to saying it's
a good thing because you know obviously
he's going to come he's going to film
himself or we're gonna film him and you
know have fun and so on you know just a
very short time ago this was something
really positive in your life cheetah
that we that me and other people you
know especially me and Jason Posey know
we're really putting in work to make
happen and now already that's falling
apart you know now already I've got a
look at sheet and say okay well what's
happening and if cheetahs short-term
strategy is to create invidious hatred
between as many people as possible like
the thing with vegan mojo and she just
says he's remarked on the internet with
that he has dirt on you know Jason and
hey Nia that he's got some kind of
scandal he's going to try to monger and
so on like well you know there's what
you do and there's the way that you do
it okay well are we still going to get
this kind of positivity from you are you
still committed to making this
particular event happen or are you out
or
you canceling your involvement you know
what does that mean for you what does
that mean for us what does it mean for
anyone who's trying to make this mess of
eccentrics into some kind of meaningful
movement in the future notice she crazy
man so the philosophical point I wanted
to make in this video that's what's what
will be interesting to me if I come back
and watch this video 10 years from now
you know being a nice guy what Timothy
wrote to me about is very very different
from being someone who's highly
motivated to deal with ethics or it's
also just totally unrelated from the
feelings the sentiments that may shape
your ethics in life and I mean I'm
someone who's susceptible to both for me
you know my engagement with moral and
ethical problems it's not purely
rational it's not just a academic
debating Club or something it's part of
how I feel and how I feel really does
shape what I do um for me I mean I'm
gonna tell this this anecdote in a very
short manner but you know for me in my
life it was an ant oh that really
highlighted this you know the way I
experience ethical questions and ethical
things in my life i sat down once in a
cafe with a young woman who had just
finished law school she just started her
career as a lawyer and she was a Dutch
citizen she was citizen another ones but
she was black uh and from the very first
time she and I met each other we only
met twice from the very first time we
met each other there was just a
tremendous chemistry between us
tremendous physical attraction and we
did have a very intelligent conversation
she was an intelligent woman as well as
one who was beautiful and very
attractive to me but the reality was the
the substance of the conversation for
both of us was you know you start
talking and the question is really i'm
feeling very attracted to you are you
feeling very attracted me also just both
parties are really trying to figure out
if the feeling is mutual and then once
you know it is mutual what are you going
to do next now so this woman who had
just started her career as
lawyer she talked to me a lot about
humanitarian work but at that time I was
really more involved in than I am now
now I'm just a student learning Chinese
blah blah blah most you guys know talk
about humanitarian work some ethical
issues in history and politics about a
lot of things that are meaningful and
important to me in my life you know what
what she was choosing to talk about and
we talked a little bit about her
experience in law school on her starting
you know to be to be a lawyer now at the
end of the conversation what she said to
me directly and it's the only second
time I met up with her she directly
propositioned me she asked me if I was
going to come back to hotel room with
her 00 extra pepper she she invited me
to come back to her hotel room with her
for about three hours she specified
amount of time um and you know the
attraction was very real and also in
terms of raw intelligence you know my
respect for was very real but I did not
do that I did not go with her and the
reason for me was very simple but it's
it's part of this element of how ethics
and feeling and so on really connects to
the core of my character late in the
conversation I then turned to her and
asks we had just been talking about
something about humanitarian work and
helping the poor and the downtrodden
under you know conversation we covered
many different endings and turned to her
and I just said oh so you know in your
legal practice are you planning to
address you know some of these issues
are you engaged with some of the things
we've just been talking about and I
respect your honesty but what she said
to me was no she had chosen to just go
into corporate law and she was just
going to do whatever paid the most money
you know now obviously that's a
paraphrase she talked about her
professional aspirations and why she was
doing what she did in her in her own
terms but that was what it boiled down
to now I do not regard that as evil and
it says I don't even got it as bad I
regarded as bunnell or or even just
morally neutral but you know when she
said that to me when she explained what
her her current and future
was to use a phrase that I got from a
from very memorable context and in
Buddhism you know I felt cold in my
bones it really chilled me to the core
and up to that point you know I felt so
attracted to her and so interest in her
and what have you you know probably if
she hadn't said that to me or she had
lied if she had just told me that yeah
she really cares about helping the poor
and downtrodden she was engaged in some
kind of humanitarian worker at some some
pretensions or aspirations to make the
world a better place up any kind
probably I would have gone to that hotel
room with her and who knows
theoretically we could still be in
contact today theoretically we could be
married today I doubt it but you know
that that really chilled me in the same
sense that I was saying before you know
something like wool or leather it
doesn't look bad doesn't feel bad
doesn't smell bad as a finished product
but what you know about it changes how
you feel for me that was one of the most
stark turning points were just suddenly
what I know about someone changes how i
feel about them and as they say it
doesn't make me a nice guy it doesn't
make me a morally good person quite the
contrary I really kind of identify
openly as someone who cares a great deal
about morality and ethics but I'm
willing to reflect in the fact that I
don't conform to a lot of the social
expectations that are placed on me
neither here in China nor in Cambodia
nor in Canada I do not meet the Canadian
definition of a nice guy at all and i'm
not interested in trying to uh but i
think that in that sense you know
someone like cheetah and someone like
myself were really at opposite extremes
cheetah i think he really is a nice guy
he really when he says to you i hope you
have a great weekend he really means it
and i'll never say that's you but on the
other hand both on the level of feeling
and the level of rational thought about
the future I really care about ethics I
really you know I've been in the
position many times having to quit a job
or refuse a job before I was hired when
I was offered a job you know refused to
start for ethical reasons and one
component of that is just thinking
through ethically what's right and
what's wrong but another component that
also is that chil is the cold in my
bones I felt
the fact that I'm actually turned off by
in this case you know literally turned
off by a lot of these you know to me
immoral things when they're when they're
offered to me a lot of the things
cheetah has been doing to get attention
to me would be chilling a pope in fact
that I wouldn't do them rationally
because I'd be concerned about exactly
this kind of thing like okay if you're
going to create this invidious and
poisonous atmosphere within veganism
where everyone's stabbing each other in
the back to get another 5,000 views this
week blah blah blah what happens next
how do we organize real activism how do
we even organize an event like this in
Thailand where people can meet each
other and cooperate that's that's
rational but i also have say a lot of
the stuff he's been doing it would be
revolting to me on the same ways leather
and wool it would make me feel cold in
my bones as in this other example so
both both on the level of reasoning and
a level of feeling i could never do the
things that this guy has been doing and
I don't know where that leaves us right
now I wish I could tell you I mean I've
got no response from cheetah I wish I
could tell you that he would write back
to me and say that despite all this
other noise also the drama he's really
committed to making it positive event
happen that he reels really cares about
this kind of organization and activism
or proto activism of trying to get the
ball rolling and that he really wants to
you know support that event and and that
he that even just wants to support his
fellow youtubers just isn't asking a
whole lot but i don't think i don't
think i'm going to get that email and
instead i think it's going to become an
open question of you know for me and
jason fazzino i'd still like to help mel
with this that probably jason has got to
organize a very different kind of event
from what we first thought about where
it's really based much more on a closed
list of people being invited one at a
time where we talked to vegan last eight
vegan last ok are you committed can you
arrive on this day when can you make it
good we're going to book the hotel room
for you where maybe it's going to be a
short list of it's going to be 15 people
maybe it's going to be 25 people it's
going to be really a much more closed
event
and that's what happens I mean the type
of the type of scandal mongering and
backstab you just mean-spirited crude
damage that's being done within veganism
right now it results in something that
could be open and happy and positive and
inviting in strangers instead becomes
closed it's too bad i still think we've
got a lot of potential I still think we
got a lot of talented people we're
trying to make something positive happen
short term and long term and the
ultimate tragedy of this is that
short-term thinking tends to resemble
evil if you're only thinking short-term
about your next video but your next five
thousand viewers about your next 5,000
subscribers that's going to prevent you
from even thinking as long term as this
December let's organize an event in
Thailand let's meet each other it's
definitely going to prevent you from
thinking about in the next five years
the next ten years who can I cooperate
with who can be my colleague who can
really contribute in a meaningful way to
this whole saving the planet thing that
on some level all of us are committed to